add user guide (#513)
fastplotlib/fastplotlib: docs/source/user_guide/guide.rst

The `fastplotlib` guide
=======================

Installation
------------

To install use pip:

.. code-block::

    pip install -U fastplotlib

or install the bleeding edge from Github:

.. code-block::

>     pip install -U https://github.com/fastplotlib/fastplotlib/archive/main.zip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pip install git+https://github.com/fastplotlib/fastplotlib.git@main
```

What is `fastplotlib`?
----------------------

> `fastplotlib` is a cutting-edge plotting library built using the `pygfx <https://github.com/pygfx/pygfx>`_ rendering engine.

Author: ```suggestion
``fastplotlib`` is a cutting-edge plotting library built using the `pygfx <https://github.com/pygfx/pygfx>`_ rendering engine.
```

The lower-level details of the rendering process (i.e. defining a scene, camera, renderer, etc.) are abstracted away, allowing users to focus on their data.
The fundamental goal of `fastplotlib` is to provide a high-level, expressive API that promotes large-scale explorative scientific visualization. We want to
make it easy and intuitive to produce interactive visualizations that are as performant and vibrant as a modern video game :D

How to use `fastplotlib`
------------------------

Before giving a detailed overview of the library, here is a minimal example::

    import fastplotlib as fpl
    import imageio.v3 as iio

    fig = fpl.Figure()

    data = iio.imread("imageio:astronaut.png")

    image_graphic = fig[0, 0].add_image(data=data)

    fig.show()

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        fpl.run()

> .. image:: _static/guide_hello_world.png

Reviewer: try `./_static/` ??

The `Figure` object houses and takes care of the underlying rendering components such as the camera, controller, renderer, and canvas.
Most users won't need to use these directly; however, the ability to directly interact with the rendering engine is still available if
needed.

By default, if no ``shape`` argument is provided when creating a `Figure`, there will be a single subplot. All subplots in a `Figure` can be accessed using
indexing (i.e. `fig_object[i ,j]`).

After defining a `Figure`, we can begin to add `Graphic` objects.

**Graphics**

A `Graphic` can be an image, a line, a scatter, a collection of lines, and more. All graphics can also be given a convenient ``name``. This allows graphics
to be easily accessed from figures::

    fig = fpl.Figure()

    data = iio.imread("imageio:astronaut.png")

    image_graphic = fig[0, 0].add_image(data=data, name="astronaut")

    fig.show()

    fig[0, 0]["astronaut"]

..

Graphics also have mutable properties that can be linked to events. Some of these properties, such as the `data` or `colors` of a line can even be indexed,
allowing for the creation of very powerful visualizations.

> (1) Common properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(1) Common properties that all graphics have
```

your data, you are able to select an entire region.

Now we have the basics of creating a `Figure`, adding `Graphics` to a `Figure`, and working with `Graphic` properties to dynamically change or alter them.
Let's take a look at how we can define events to link `Graphics` and their properties together.

Events
------

Events can be a multitude of things: traditional events such as mouse or keyboard events, but they can also be
events related to `Graphic` properties.

There are two methods for adding events in `fastplotlib`.

1) Add an event handler directly. ::

    def event_handler(ev):
        pass

    graphic.add_event_handler(event_handler, "event_type")

..

2) Use decorator notation. ::

    @graphic.add_event_handler("event_type")
    def event_handler(ev):
        pass

..

.. note::
    You can also add events to a `Figure` object's renderer. This is useful for defining click events where
    you want to map your click position to the nearest graphic object for example.

The `event_handler` is a user-defined function that accepts a singular event object (`ev`) as an argument.

> Information about the contents of the event object argument can be found below. The `"event_type"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Information about the structure of event instances are described below. The `"event_type"`
```

is a string that identifies the type of event; this can be either a `pygfx.Event` or a `Graphic` property event.
See the above graphic-specific properties that can be used for events and below for the available `pygfx` events.

> Available `pygfx` Events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rendering engine (``pygfx``) events:
```

    - "key_down"
    - "key_up"
    - "pointer_down"
    - "pointer_move"
    - "pointer_up"
    - "pointer_enter"
    - "pointer_leave"
    - "click"
    - "double_click"
    - "wheel"
    - "close"
    - "resize"

When an event occurs, the user-defined event handler will receive and event object. Depending on the type of event, the
event object will have relevant information that can be used in the callback. See below for event tables.

> **All events have the following attributes:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**All ``Graphic`` events have the following attributes:**
```

    | dict key | value type | value description             |
    +==========+============+===============================+
    | value    | np.ndarray | new x or y value of selection |
    +----------+------------+-------------------------------+

    LinearRegionSelector

    **additional event attributes:**

    +----------------------+----------+------------------------------------+
    | attribute            | type     | description                        |
    +======================+==========+====================================+
    | get_selected_indices | callable | returns indices under the selector |
    +----------------------+----------+------------------------------------+
    | get_selected_data    | callable | returns data under the selector    |
    +----------------------+----------+------------------------------------+

    **info dict:**

    +----------+------------+-----------------------------+
    | dict key | value type | value description           |
    +==========+============+=============================+
    | value    | np.ndarray | new [min, max] of selection |
    +----------+------------+-----------------------------+

> `ImageWidget`

Reviewer: No backticks so it doesn't show up weird in the table of contents

    import imageio.v3 as iio

    movie = iio.imread("imageio:cockatoo.mp4")

    # convert RGB movie to grayscale
    gray_movie = np.dot(movie[..., :3], [0.299, 0.587, 0.114])

    iw_movie = ImageWidget(
    data=gray_movie,
    cmap="gray"
    )

    iw_movie.show()

.. image:: _static/guide_image_widget.gif

Animations
----------

An animation function is a user-defined function that gets called on every rendering cycle. Let's look at an example: ::

    import fastplotlib as fpl
    import numpy as np

    data = np.random.rand(512, 512)

    fig = fpl.Figure()

    fig[0,0].add_image(data=data, name="random-img")

    def update_data(plot_instance):
        new_data = np.random.rand(512, 512)
        plot_instance["random-img"].data = new_data

    fig[0,0].add_animations(update_data)

    fig.show()

.. image:: _static/guide_animation.gif

Here we are defining a function that updates the data of the `ImageGraphic` in the plot with new random data. When adding an animation function, the
user-defined function will receive a plot instance as an argument when it is called.

Spaces
------

There are several spaces to consider when using `fastplotlib`:

1) World Space

>     World space is the 3D space in which objects live. World space has no limits on its size. Objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    World space is the 3D space in which graphical objects live. Objects
```

    and the camera can exist anywhere in this space. Objects in this space exist relative to a larger

>     world.

Reviewer: remove "Objects in this space exist relative to a larger
    world."

2) Data Space

    Data space is simply the world space plus any offset or rotation that has been applied to an object.

3) Screen Space

>     Screen space is a 2D space represented in pixels. This space is constrained by the screen width and screen height.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Screen space is the 2D space in which your screen pixels reside. This space is constrained by the screen width and height in pixels.
```

    In the rendering process, the camera is responsible for projecting the world space into screen space.

> 

Reviewer: something like "For more information on the various spaces used by rendering engines please see this article: https://learnopengl.com/Getting-started/Coordinate-Systems"

.. note::
    When interacting with `Graphic` objects, there is a very helpful function for mapping screen space to world space
    (`Figure.map_screen_to_world(pos=(x, y))`). This can be particularly useful when working with click events where click
    positions are returned in screen space but `Graphic` objects that you may want to interact with exist in world

>     space.

Reviewer: add something like: "note that world space does not always correspond directly to data space, you may have to adjust for any offset or rotation of the ``Graphic``"

> Using `fastplotlib` interactively

Reviewer: This section needs more clarity, add subsections for each of jupyter and ipython. In jupyter they can use jupyter-rfb, qt, or glfw. In ipython they can use only qt or glfw.

---------------------------------

There are multiple ways to use `fastplotlib` interactively.

> On `jupyter lab` or `jupyter notebook` the jupyter backend (i.e. `jupyter_rfb`) is normally selected. This works via

Reviewer: double ticks

Reviewer: remove jupyter notebook :laughing:

client-server rendering. Images generated on the server are streamed to the client (Jupyter) via a jpeg byte stream.
Events (such as mouse or keyboard events) are then streamed in the opposite direction prompting new images to be generated
by the server if necessary. This remote-frame-buffer approach makes the rendering process very fast. `fastplotlib` viusalizations

> can be displayed in cell output or on the side using `jupyterlab-sidecar`.

Reviewer: it's just sidecar

**Figure**

> The starting for creating any visualization in `fastplotlib` is a `Figure` object. This can be a single plot or a grid of subplots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The starting point for creating any visualization in `fastplotlib` is a `Figure` object. This can be a single plot or a grid of subplots.
```

`ImageWidget`
-------------

> Often times, developing UIs for interacting with multi-dimension image data can be tedious and repetitive. In order to alleviate the headache that accompanies
> constantly recreating visualizations, we created an `ImageWidget` that automatically generates sliders and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often times, developing UIs for interacting with multi-dimension image data can be tedious and repetitive. In order to aid with common image and video visualizations requirements the `ImageWidget` automatically generates sliders and 
```
